---
layout: post
title: "Internal and external views"
subtitle: "Why is there a difference between the internal and external views of a company’s ESG performance?"
date: 2022-07-02 10:45:13 -0400
background: '/img/posts/esg.jpg'
---

<!-- <script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
  MathJax.Hub.Config({
    tex2jax:
		{inlineMath: [['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)']],
		 displayMath: [ ['$$','$$'], ["\\[","\\]"] ], 
            	 processEscapes: true }
		 });
</script>
<script src="//cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"></script> -->


### Highlights <br> <br>

- This study investigates why external ESG scores differ from the internal view of ESG performance.
- It expands on previous studies that have investigated the asymmetric relationship between ownership type and corporate information.
- Based on this, this study tests the demand and opportunistic behavior hypotheses regarding information asymmetry.
- The characteristics of firms with substantial differences between their ESG score and internal view of ESG performance are examined. <br><br>

### 1. Introduction <br>

**1.1 What is ESG?** <br>
Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues have recently emerged as global economic concerns and have become important non-financial factors for company performance. The trend today is to evaluate companies by fully reflecting the non-financial factors that affect corporate value and sustainability in the long-term, in contrast to the traditional method of judging only a company’s financial performance. The term ESG first appeared in 2006 in the “UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI),” which were established by the United Nations (UN). At the time, Kofi Atta Annan, the UN’s Secretary General, proposed ESG as a perspective within the PRI for investment decision-making. With the establishment of the PRI, the UN urged investors to consider both financial and non-financial factors, such as environmental responsibility, social responsibility, and governance, when making investment decisions about a company.

**1.2 ESG as a World Focus** <br>
In response to the consensus that companies should be as active in making social contributions as they are in making economic contributions, investments based on ESG factors have become substantially more important. According to the PRI, ESG investments surpassed US$100 trillion in 2020, an amount more than double the size of the U.S. stock market. Avramov, Cheng, Lioui, and Tarelli (2022) report that there has been an exponential increase in interest in the ESG factor-based investment approach, which considers environmental, social, and governance factors in the selection and management of portfolios for sustainable investing in the global financial market. ESG has become an irreversible trend, especially since the recent occurrence of a natural disaster caused by climate change and the global economic recession driven by the COVID-19 pandemic.

**1.3 Performance of ESG Information-based Investments** <br>
Studies support the argument that ESG information actually helps investors make better decisions. For example, Lööf and Stephan (2019) argue that a decrease in the downside risk of stock returns is associated with a high ESG score. Maiti (2021) proposes a more robust asset pricing model with ESG factors, showing that the model outperforms the Fama and French’s (1993) three-factor model. According to Verheyden, Eccles, and Feiner (2016), if stocks are chosen based on ESG measures, the tail risk can be reduced, and high stock returns can be achieved. In other words, investing based on ESG information shows significantly high performance. Furthermore, Avramov, Cheng, Lioui, and Tarelli (2022) study the ESG factors of six major data vendors. They find that as the standard deviation of the ESG score increased (i.e., as ESG uncertainty increased), demand for the stock decreased.

**1.4 Limitations of ESG Information** <br>
However, information related to ESG scores and ratings provided by external organizations relies on a company’s voluntary disclosures. These voluntary disclosures may be false information created by pressure to greenwash and incentives to increase ESG scores. Briscoe-Tran (2021) capture and evaluate corporate ESG practices using internal corporate views measured using employee reviews on Glassdoor. The results show that internal corporate views predict a firm’s future value or risk better than external ESG ratings, and the internal perspective is robust to greenwashing.

**1.5 Contributions** <br>
These results raise the following question: why is there a difference between corporate insiders’ views of ESG performance and the ESG score? The goal is to answer this question. Givoly, Hayn, and Katz (2010) argue that accounting information quality will vary depending on whether ownership is public or private. This study suggests this concept also applies to ESG information. According to the demand hypothesis, disclosure of ESG information will be more transparent when public ownership is high because of shareholders and creditors’ strong demand for quality reporting. This, in turn, results in low information asymmetry between internal and external corporate ESG information. On the other hand, the opportunistic behavior hypothesis suggests that high public ownership will result in less transparent disclosure of ESG information. This is because managers in such firms have a stronger incentive to manipulate earnings than managers in firms with less public ownership. Therefore, the quality of their reporting is lower and the asymmetry between internal and external corporate ESG information may be larger. Consequently, this study examines the relationship between public ownership and the degree of gap between the internal and external corporate views of ESG performance. It expands on previous studies that investigated the relationship between ownership type and corporate information asymmetry. This study aids in understanding how management’s incentives and investors’ demand affect the quality of ESG information disclosures.

### 2. Data and Methodology <br>

The target companies are the stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), American Stock Exchange (AMEX), and National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (NASDAQ) at least once in the last ten years. Like Givoly, Hayn, and Katz (2010), This study classifies firms as private firms and public firms based on the corporate data in the SEC filings retrieved from the EDGAR database. Furthermore, firms’ MSCI ESG Scores are collected as the external view of firm ESG performance. For the internal view, Glassdoor reviews are collected. The method of scoring internal views follows Briscoe-Tran’s (2022) approach, in which the proportion of the keywords of “environmental,” “social,” and “governance” in the cons section is subtracted from the proportion in the pros section. To unify the scale, the external views are normalized between -1 and 1 according to the min and max of the agent providing the information. This study uses the internal and external views obtained to establish and validate the following hypothesis.

<center><i>Hypothesis: The greater the proportion of private ownership, the greater the difference between internal and external views of ESG performance.</i></center>

This study verifies the demand hypothesis, which proposes that demand by shareholders and creditors for quality reporting is stronger if public ownership is high. <br>


### References
Avramov, D., Cheng, S., Lioui, A., & Tarelli, A. (2022). Sustainable investing with ESG rating uncertainty. _Journal of Financial Economics_, 145(2), 642-664.

Briscoe-Tran, H. (2022). An inside view of corporate ESG practices. _Fisher College of Business Working Paper_.

Givoly, D., Hayn, C. K., & Katz, S. P. (2010). Does public ownership of equity improve earnings quality? _Accounting Review_, 85(1), 195-225.

Lööf, H., & Stephan, A. (2019). The Impact of ESG on Stocks' Downside Risk and Risk Adjusted Return. _Working Paper Series in Economics and Institutions of Innovation 477_, 1-28.

Maiti, M. (2021). Is ESG the succeeding risk factor? _Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment_, 11(3), 199-213.

Verheyden, T., Eccles, R. G., & Feiner, A. (2016). ESG for all? The impact of ESG screening on return, risk, and diversification. _Journal of Applied Corporate Finance_, 28(2), 47-55.

Wang, C., & Luo, B. (2021). Predicting $ gme stock price movement using sentiment from reddit r/wallstreetbets. _In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Financial Technology and Natural Language Processing_, 22-30.
